[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: Never before
has it been more important
to begin looking into the nature
of reality in an ordered way.
This is what the various
ancient mystical orders
were based upon, a
clear intellect endowed
with the capacity to see deeper
truths, even unseen energies.
We have Robert
Gilbert with us today
to speak about the unique
virtues of the ancient lineages
of knowledge, and you span
all of them pretty much.
And some more modern ones.
Welcome, Robert.
>> ROBERT GILBERT:
Great to be here.
>> REGINA: This is the first
time you've been on Gaia.
>> GILBERT: It's
the first time, yes.
>> REGINA: Well, you have
a really fascinating story.
Your site,
vesica.org, you really
split it into science
and spirituality.
And this is really big,
because this is who you are,
but a lot of people
don't understand
that Rosicrucianism,
Hermeticism is really
called occult science.
>> GILBERT: Yes.
>> REGINA: People think you're
going into the mysteries that
are more nebulous and unseen
without understanding,
these are highly structured
systems of information.
>> GILBERT: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: Very
scientifically based.
So just for a moment, just
finish that sentence off for me
because I want to get into this
really intriguing part of who
you were before.
>> GILBERT: OK,
great, thank you.
One thing that I often say
about the current situation
in metaphysics is that we
live in an incredible time--
that is, both a
blessing and a curse.
And the blessing
of it is that we
have access to
esoteric information
from an incredible
range of traditions
all over the planet,
things that used
to be very hidden, very secret.
That in earlier
times on the Earth,
you'd have to spend your whole
lifetime trying to access
small bits of that knowledge.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> GILBERT: It's available
now in an incredible flood.
And so to have so much available
to us is really such a gift.
But it's a curse
because a lot of it
has come out in a
very fragmented form.
And so in modern
metaphysics, we have
to try to put together these
fragments into a hole that
makes sense to us.
And so what the Vesica Institute
that I founded is really about
is, how do we put
together these pieces
from different traditions, from
different bodies of knowledge
into a coherent whole so
that we can understand
how to develop our consciousness
and our energy in the most
clear, concise way possible?
So really trying to clarify the
core principles behind the work
so people can get to really--
the meat--
>> REGINA: Useful.
>> GILBERT: Yes, the most useful
things as quickly as possible.
>> REGINA: And the
thing is, you can go--
you can study for many,
many years any one of these
traditions.
But oftentimes if you don't have
a certain level of discernment,
it's not ever going
to be applicable.
>> GILBERT: I'm so glad
you brought that up.
For the work that
we do with creating
a clear, concise overview of
the sciences of subtle energy
and of consciousness,
discernment is really
the foundation of everything.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> GILBERT: And it's something
that probably is not emphasized
enough in modern metaphysics.
And so for the development
of discernment,
I think that it's important
to see where we are today
in modern initiatory processes.
If we look at ancient
times, people normally
went through initiation by
joining a particular initiation
group, often a closed
group, and you'd
be a part of that one group
for the rest of your life.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GILBERT: And so you would
go very deep in that one
tradition, but you wouldn't
learn things from other
perspectives necessarily.
And you would have a particular
teacher or a guru who really
guided the entire process.
There's been a huge
change in the last couple
of hundred years.
Part of it was the
Scientific Revolution
where the old religions
began to die to some extent
and people became
more independent
in their spiritual search.
But today there's
developed a kind
of independent
initiatory process
that people are
voting with their feet
to do all over the world.
So now millions upon
millions of people
do not say that they have one
particular tradition or one
particular teacher,
but rather, they're
gathering information
from everywhere,
and that's really what
I think Gaia is about.
To gather information
from everywhere
and put it into a
useful system that
works for whatever they need.
>> REGINA: That's in a really, I
think, well-considered process.
Whereas a lot of times what
people tend to do also is
go through and
cherry-pick a little
of this, a little of that.
Cobble something together that
already reflects who they are.
>> GILBERT: Right.
>> REGINA: And that's where
it starts breaking down,
and millions of
people do that, too.
>> GILBERT: Right, absolutely.
If you look at the work from the
European Rosicrucians, people
like Rudolf Steiner, they
really emphasize this concept
that in modern times,
self-initiation
is a major part of
spiritual development.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> GILBERT: Because we are
able to choose and learn from
so many different
traditions and teachers.
But this requires that we
have a very keen intelligence
to work through a
lot of information.
We have to be very proactive
and put it together
so the different pieces actually
form a coherent whole that
creates something in our
own personal development
that actually leads us to
where we need to get to.
And as part of
that understanding
of the context we're
working in, discernment
is the absolute
foundation of everything.
>> REGINA: Absolutely, and
that's what we appear to be
lacking right now across
the board as a species.
And that's one of the
things about Steiner's work
that was so beautiful.
Is it was cohesive,
even more so than I
think a lot of the
ancient traditions,
which brought in a
lot of information.
I call a Hermetic education
a proper education because it
spans everything, from--
in all of the sciences
to art to poetry
to color and light
and the cosmos.
That's a proper education.
But it is like a
liberal arts education
that's deeply
spiritual, whereas what
he was doing with anthroposophy
was very, very focused
around a type of
human development
that you could kind of
get your mind around.
>> GILBERT: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> GILBERT: And so to have
true freedom in our spiritual
development, I think that's only
possible if we have sufficient
contextual knowledge.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
>> GILBERT: If you don't
have contextual knowledge,
you don't have enough
information to make an informed
choice, and then
there's no freedom.
And so to have the
discernment, then,
to be able to choose what
is the best pathway or what,
in my limited amount
of time and energy
that any person has, where do
I want to focus my attention
to develop my core structure
to the level that's going to be
the most important for me?
And from my perspective, to
go beyond the present lifetime
something that becomes the
core of our development
that we can keep?
Because I believe
that after we die,
we lose all the superficial
aspects, but what we keep
is the core structure
of the subtle bodies
in the consciousness.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
>> GILBERT: And that moves on.
So if we use our
lifetimes properly,
we can really structure
the subtle bodies
so that we can take that
through the gate of death
and keep moving through a
true initiatory process.
>> REGINA: You are so right.
I'm so glad you're so
articulate in the way you
state all of this.
I'm really very
appreciative of your saying
even just that because we
always talk about and bandy
about the notion
of reincarnation,
but we don't talk often
enough about the fact
that this is an ongoing process
of refinement from lifetime
to lifetime to lifetime.
And it's smart for
one to consider
what you want to
inherit yourself
when you come into
your next incarnation.
And that's directly going
to be a reflection of what
you develop now.
>> GILBERT: Yes, I really
feel like we need to refocus
on the importance of
our present earthly life
and the opportunity
that it gives us.
I think many classical
traditions will
agree that everyone goes through
initiation in earthly life,
and you can either do it,
as the Buddhists would
say, through skillful
means, or you
can do it through the
School of Hard Knocks.
>> REGINA: You can
stumble through it.
>> GILBERT: That's right.
And you're better off choosing
the School of Skillful Means
so you don't have to do all
the unnecessary suffering
of the School of Hard Knocks.
But if we can then
really understand
what the core principles
and processes are
to develop our
energy body, which
is what then feeds
our consciousness
so the consciousness can expand
and really bring together--
like they did in ancient India,
the concepts of the Shiva,
the ultimate consciousness,
and the Shakti,
the ultimate energy,
and bring together
energetic and consciousness
practices that
are going to create a
structure in our subtle bodies
that we can keep and
that we can take with us
through the gate of death.
I think many classical
traditions were focused
on that, and that in
modern metaphysics,
we can bring together
incredible insights
from so many
traditions with this,
but unfortunately it's
been so fragmented today
that people don't always see
how the pieces fit together.
>> REGINA: It's true.
And also popularized
to the point
of almost being of chewing
gum status in some cases.
>> GILBERT: It can
be caricatured.
>> REGINA: Yes, it
can be caricatured.
So you're really--
what you're looking
to do is bring the fulsome
of it together in a way
that we can understand
and in a way that
can be almost validated
essentially through the world
and body of science.
>> GILBERT: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: So, you're
a scientist by nature.
So let's go back into this
other part of your life.
OK, I gotta read this off here.
You were a US Marine
Corps instructor
of nuclear, biological,
chemical warfare survival.
>> GILBERT: That's right.
>> REGINA: OK,
that's a mouthful.
Let's talk about who
you were in this job you
were doing and then
ultimately will
go into how it took you
to where you are now.
>> GILBERT: Well, this
present conversation,
I'd like to say something I
don't often say about that
background, which is
that I believe as part
of our incarnating, that
we have all kinds of skills
and knowledge that we
have from previous times.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>> GILBERT: And one of the
principles of this is that
sometimes we need to
have certain experiences
in the present lifetime to
remind us of the things that we
developed before and to bring
those skills back up on--
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
>> GILBERT: --in the
current lifetime.
And so for me, to bring up
certain skills, knowledge,
willpower, whatever it might
be from some previous lifetimes
that were more in the
military and monastic than I
needed when I was a young
man to join the military.
And so I wanted to
join a outfit that
was more of an elite
type of structure,
and so I joined the US
Marine Corps at a young age.
And my test scores
were fairly high,
so they assigned me
unexpectedly to become
an instructor in nuclear,
biological, chemical warfare
defense and survival.
>> REGINA: Did you have
any schooling or background
in this?
Or did they send you
to university for this?
How did this work
if you didn't have
a background in these areas?
>> GILBERT: Well, they literally
just go off the test scores,
I think.
And at that
particular time-- this
was still during the Cold War.
This is 1982 when I entered.
And so they needed to expand
the number of people involved
in this, because
unfortunately, as mankind tends
to do in modern times,
we have infinite funding
for technologies of death
and limited funding--
>> REGINA: And none for life.
>> GILBERT: Exactly.
And so it's a fairly
sobering field
to be involved in nuclear,
biological, chemical warfare.
This is basically finding, how
do we pervert physics, biology,
and chemistry to be able to
kill as many people as possible?
So again, it's a
very sobering field
to be a part of as a young man.
But it also was something that
awakened in me the importance
of understanding how do we
develop in a positive sense
to be able to
counterbalance this?
But also held within
it was the idea
that if we're going
to be teaching people
how to survive these types
of unconventional warfare,
it all comes back to physics,
biology, and chemistry.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> GILBERT: So in
the Marine Corps,
you don't get sent
to university,
you get sent to particular
training schools.
And for me, it was
at Fort McClellan,
which was an Army training
base in Anniston, Alabama.
And so they have their
own training systems.
But once I got out
of that training
to become a teacher
in this, I spent
a lot of my own time going
more deeply into the background
of physics, biology,
chemistry, and one thing
that I found while I
was in the military
and studying these
topics is that there
were a whole series
of studies that
were based on geometric
aspects of physics, biology,
and chemistry that the general
public is not aware of.
We get presented with an image
of these modern sciences that's
almost completely
mathematical or algebraic.
And for the vast
majority of people,
that's very off-putting.
They're traumatized
by high school math
and they don't really want
anything to do with that.
And for example, I
found one document
that was sponsored
by NATO and it
was a study of chemical
structures from a purely
geometric perspective.
And I thought, this makes
everything so clear.
It's so easy to understand--
a child could understand
how these natural systems work
based on the geometry of it.
And over time,
what this led me to
was to study what the
geometric basis was
of modern physics,
biology, and chemistry,
and then to go back
into ancient traditions
and study what we think of
today as sacred geometry
and find one-to-one
matches between what's
been rediscovered today
in modern technology
as the patterns that all
of science is based on
and see how that was
known thousands of years
previously in other traditions.
And if I could give one
particular example that
was very affecting for me, I
was doing research, of course,
into the Egyptian and
the Pythagorean schools
and about the concepts of the
Platonic geometry, Archimedean
geometry.
And so this all goes back to the
perfect divisions of a sphere.
The sphere is the perfect
form in sacred geometry.
And that's because
the center, which
is our gateway to the
divine, has a boundary being
created around it which becomes
the sphere of all of creation.
And for a sphere, the distance
between the divine center
and the periphery of creation is
equidistant in every direction.
That's what makes the
sphere the perfect form
in sacred geometry.
Every part of it is
equidistant from the divine,
from the center.
And so the next issue that
comes up in sacred geometry
is, how do you divide that
sphere into different forms
that have different
vibrational powers,
or what they would call sitas
in the Indian tradition.
>> REGINA: So let me just stay
with you for a moment here.
>> GILBERT: OK.
>> REGINA: So are you saying
that all of the other forms
of geometry are essentially
embedded within the sphere?
>> GILBERT: When you study the
particular pathway that was
taken in Greece, for
example, coming out of Egypt,
then they really start with the
sphere and how do you divide
the sphere, but we don't always
explain what I just mentioned
about why do they always say
the sphere is the first form
of sacred geometry.
>> REGINA: Which makes
perfect sense, of course.
Just look at the cosmos,
look at anything.
>> GILBERT: Exactly.
And so the pathway they followed
again, coming out of Egypt,
was how do we then divide
the sphere into equal parts
that all have exactly
the same shape face, all
the same angles, et cetera?
And of course, there are
five perfect divisions
of the sphere that we
call the Platonic solids.
Now the thing about
it that I found
fascinating was in
the old Greek times,
they only made four
of those forms public.
And the fifth form, the
form of the ether, which
is the dodecahedron, a 12-sided
form and every one of the faces
is a pentagon, that
form was kept secret.
And they said, we cannot
release this to the public.
The dodecahedron
has to stay secret
because if it was to
be misused as the key
to the ether, the
dynamic life force,
it could unleash incredible
forces of destruction
that people can't even imagine.
And so in the Pythagorean
school, and later
Platonic schools,
you had to swear
you'd never make public
the form of the ether.
The only place
that you really see
it described by
Plato in his writings
is when he says that the
Earth, when seen from above,
looks like a 12-sided
leather ball.
And he's talking about
the dodecahedral structure
of the Earth itself.
Other than that,
it's very secret.
And so then I began to look
at declassified photographs
and documents.
Do you actually go to the work
of people who are involved
with the Manhattan Project?
>> REGINA: OK.
>> GILBERT: So for example,
Professor Robert Moon from
the University of Chicago.
He later made public a model of
the whole periodic table that's
based on pure Platonic geometry.
And so one particular
element is based on the cube,
another one is based on
the cube developing further
to the octahedron, et cetera.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>> GILBERT: And so there are
these models of the periodic
table that's based on this
type of classical geometry.
And so I began to look for
declassified photographs
of the first nuclear weapons.
So I knew he was a part
of the Manhattan Project.
I said, well, also if you take
a look at Werner Heisenberg's
work, he's very much
about Platonic geometry,
and they're always dealing
with these ancient mysteries.
But these are only the most
advanced people in the field.
The average person doesn't
know anything about it.
And so as I looked at
declassified photographs
from the Manhattan Project,
I found these pictures
of what the actual interior
of the first nuclear weapon
exploded in Trinity Sands,
New Mexico actually look like.
Now what you normally
see, it looks
like a sphere on the outside.
But if you take
off that cladding
and see what's inside of it,
it's a perfect dodecahedron.
And they said they had to
make the first nuclear weapon
in the form of a dodecahedron,
which they just described
as 12 pentagonal faces in
the declassified documents,
they said they had to do
that so that they acted
as radiant mirrors that
would allow the critical mass
to take place and for
the explosion to happen.
And when you see
that that's what
we have in modern times, and
that thousands of years ago,
from the Egyptian-Greek
tradition,
they had warned that the misuse
of the dodecahedral pattern wow
could lead to incredible
forces of destruction.
You can see how much they
knew in ancient times.
And so I began to do decades of
research and finding one-to-one
matches between modern
patterns from physics, biology,
chemistry, and the same
patterns known and used
in ancient traditions
around the world.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
So if you go back, then,
to the understanding
from the Greek and
Egyptian traditions,
that would take you back, then,
into the Atlantean knowledge
basis, which it has been
said, in some of those texts,
did possess the
understanding and use
of destructive
nuclear technologies,
even in Atlantean times.
>> GILBERT: I think it's
interesting to see that
in modern metaphysics, a lot
of people somehow think that
the idea of Atlantis
is a modern invention.
But of course, as you
know, it goes back
to the writings from Plato
and others where in his books
he's describing the
dialogues between Solon
and these Greek initiates
and the Egyptian priest,
and their Egyptian
priests are the ones
talking about Atlantis.
>> REGINA: Even the
Rosicrucianism and Hermetic
traditions clearly state that
this is passed on knowledge
from Atlantean times.
So obviously we had a time
in very ancient times--
and it's speculation as
to whether it's 50,000,
200,000 years--
50,000, 200,000 years ago with
very advanced technologies
that we are remembering.
>> GILBERT: Yes.
>> REGINA: Right?
>> GILBERT: Absolutely.
One thing I think is
fascinating to look at
is when you see particular
types of polarity relationships
between ancient
and modern times.
So I believe from my research
that in ancient times,
most of the concepts
that they formed
were based on the etheric.
Chi, ki, prana, whatever they
called it in their tradition,
the vital life force
itself was the basis
of all science and all healing.
And this is an
understanding that's
coming from the
outside-in, whereas today,
now that we're in a reductionist
mechanistic mindset,
it's the exact
opposite polarity.
We're starting with
the microscopic nature
on the inside and
then going outward.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>> GILBERT: And so I think a lot
of the mindset that you would
have in the Atlantean time
going into the Egyptian,
into the Greek is really coming
from an etheric perspective.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>> GILBERT: I have no doubt
that a lot of what you hear
in modern metaphysics
about the use of crystals,
the use of amplified light, et
cetera in Atlantean times is
absolutely the case.
I was very fortunate to be
able to do some trainings
with Marcel Vogel.
>> REGINA: I was just
going to bring him up.
>> GILBERT: I loved--
I love Marcel.
>> REGINA: He was, I
mean, really kind of--
what later became the basis
of the computer industry
through the use of
crystal technology.
>> GILBERT: Absolutely.
Liquid crystal
displays and the basis
of the coding for hard drives,
it all came from Marcel.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> GILBERT: And everyone that
was around him at the time
really believed that he was
a reincarnate Atlantean--
>> REGINA: Atlantean.
Everyone believed that.
I remember that at the time.
>> GILBERT: Yes.
>> REGINA: I never met him.
Friends did meet him and have
quite a few of his crystals,
actually.
>> GILBERT: He was
such a lovely person.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> GILBERT: I remember being
in a class with him where he
described how his life
transformed when he was walking
on the beach one day, and I
believe he was a Catholic.
And he said that he
encountered Jesus on the beach.
And he was extremely serious
when he talked about this,
and it was two different
phases of his life.
And he devoted his whole
life to this healing work
after that happened.
And you might be familiar
with the particular project he
did once, and there's
pictures of it
available on the
internet where he
had an amorphous
surface that was
covered with liquid crystals.
Really a kind of fat crystal.
And there was no pattern on it.
And he meditated on
it for about an hour
with the image of the
Blessed Mother from-- again,
he was a Catholic.
And after an hour you see a
perfect image of the Blessed
Mother appearing
on the crystals,
because he wanted to show the
way that consciousness and mind
power would be transformed
by the crystal into energy
and into pattern into structure.
>> REGINA: Yes.
I mean, they did the same with--
I mean, in a crude sense,
cymatics and all that,
and of course, you've
heard of Masaru Emoto's
work and programming the
crystal structure of water,
but crystals themselves have
so much more body to them
if you have that
powerful a mind.
That's just-- I was
not aware of that.
I never saw those images.
That's incredible,
I'd love to see them.
>> GILBERT: Yes,
they're amazing.
>> REGINA: Wow.
That's fascinating.
OK, so let's continue on.
So we're talking about the
Atlantean technologies.
You started seeing these
declassified documents
and started looking at the
geometrical structure of energy
of the Platonic solids, right?
>> GILBERT: Right.
>> REGINA: And so now how did
this start moving you forward
into your later studies
after that in Rosicrucianism,
for example?
And then onto Hermetics.
Let's discuss that.
>> GILBERT: Well, another
one of my motives in joining
the Marine Corps in particular,
as I love the ocean,
I knew their bases were
always on the water.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>> GILBERT: And also, I knew
that they were the ones with
bases in Japan.
And for other karmic reasons, I
needed to spend time in Japan.
>> REGINA: From a past life?
>> GILBERT: I believe so.
At the time it was more of--
people aren't completely
clear about karmic impulses.
It just comes as a will impulse.
>> REGINA: An impulse, yeah.
>> GILBERT: I have to go here--
>> REGINA: Gotta go.
>> GILBERT: I can't
tell you why, but--
>> REGINA: Oh yeah.
>> GILBERT: So at
that time, I was like,
I just know I have
to go there now.
And so I studied Shingon
Buddhism and other aspects
of Eastern things in Japan.
And then when I came
back to the States,
when I finished my
work there in 1985,
I had a kind of spiritual
awakening experience
where everything became
much more conscious.
And at that point, I had
some inner experiences
that when I then went to find--
where can I find
external writings
or other teachers that are
describing what I experienced?
The closest thing
I could find were
the writings of Rudolf Steiner.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>> GILBERT: And so things that
Steiner was describing were
exactly what I had
experienced internally.
So I got deeply into
Rosicrucianism and the work
of Rudolf Steiner, who I'm still
a huge fan of his work today.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> GILBERT: Just amazing work.
And with that as a foundation,
continuing to put together
the geometric basis of
all natural systems,
I began to not only
study, but started
to teach sacred geometry.
But I taught a
little bit different
than many other people
teach sacred geometry today.
There are many great
teachers of it,
but my approach was really
informed by my finding
these one-to-one relationships
between the ancient patterns
and the modern
technological patterns,
and the other part of
it is that I really
felt that the best way to teach
it is that sacred geometry is
a divine language.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>> GILBERT: And every
geometric form is like a letter
of an alphabet.
And if you understand what
that geometric letter is
n that divine alphabet, it
has a particular function,
it has a particular power.
And just like we put
letters in an alphabet
together to form a word, we
put geometric forms together
to create a composite
form that brings together
a series of powers,
including but only energy,
but consciousness that is
the basis of everything
in existence.
Whether it's in the mineral
realm or the plant realm,
animal realm, human
realm, everything
is based on particular
blueprint patterns
of sacred geometric
forms that come together
to create the essence
of what anything is.
And I like to say
that for human beings,
that just as all snowflakes
are crystallized water,
all human beings are
crystallized spirit.
And just like every snowflake
has a unique geometric form,
every human being has a
unique geometric form.
But it's within that
invisible structure
of a person's energetic
field, which again, you
can take with you through
the gate of death, that
is the true individuality of
the person, what makes them
a unique gift to the universe.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>> GILBERT: There'll never be
another one like them again.
>> REGINA: OK, so once
this has been identified,
once you've made this
corollary between the letters
and the geometric
shapes and so forth,
how is this functionally
utilized to shift
one's frequencies?
>> GILBERT: Mmm, great question.
So I'll give you some
examples of building up
the letters of the
divine alphabet.
If you start as the
classical traditions do
in saying that the
circle or the sphere
is the first primal
form, because you have
the divine plane in
the center-- that's
the original unified force
and the unity everything
comes from, and then
you go out to a boundary
to become the alchemical
container for whatever you're
going to make and
manifest creation.
Then, again, in 2D
that becomes the point
in the center of the circle.
That becomes the image
of gold in alchemy,
it becomes the image of
the sun in astrology,
it becomes the image
of the Neta-Ra-Ah
in the Egyptian tradition.
Everybody uses it.
And it's a circuit
diagram for how
you create a balanced
relationship to the center,
to the divine.
And then that becomes the
sphere in three dimensions.
So the circle and the
sphere are essentially
nature's most archetypal
alchemical container
for something to be birthed
in, something to be born in,
something to be created from.
At that point, you then
begin to invaginate
the top and the
bottom of the sphere,
and with the twin
vortices coming
in from the top and
bottom, they then
connect at the zero point
in the center-- again,
the divine, and that becomes
the center of that hyperbola
movement that makes a torus.
>> REGINA: Torus, yeah.
>> GILBERT: So then the
torus becomes the next letter
of the divine alphabet, and
that's nature's most primal
form to be able to circulate
energy in a completely balanced
way.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>> GILBERT: And then it develops
further and you can study
things like the
spiral and the vortex,
which is nature's method to
most powerfully move energy
and consciousness from
one place to another,
whether in the physical plane or
from one non-physical location
to another.
And so applying it to ourselves,
this archetypal language
of geometry not only works with
biology, chemistry, physics,
all types of natural
sciences and the manifest
world around us, it works
in our own consciousness
and our own energy field.
And so you can start applying
the concept of the movement
from the divine center outward.
And so for example, one
thing that I'd like to teach
and our courses in
spiritual science
is that you'll find the
traditions around the world
tend to focus on one part
of a complementary polarity.
And they don't always teach
both parts of that polarity,
they teach one part of it.
And so you have to
be a Hermeticist.
You have to study
multiple systems
and say, oh, this is the
missing part of that system
and put them together.
So as a practical
example of that,
in some traditions
that I trained in,
you're taught to
focus your attention
on a particular nodal
point in the energy body.
So for some Sufi traditions
it might be a nodal point
in the physical heart.
In some other
traditions, in Himalayas,
you may be focusing
in the Cave of Brahma
in the center of the head.
And so you're focusing
on that nodal point,
and you move all of your
energy and attention
into the center of the center
of the center of the center
of that energetic center.
And so it's an
implosive movement.
It's going from
periphery to center.
And in doing that, you're moving
into higher consciousness.
You're moving into other worlds.
That's the method to be able to
navigate through higher realms.
That's where you're opening up
something like the pineal gland
to be able to become
an organ of perception
of non-physical realities
by going into the center,
to the inner world.
And so some traditions
teach only that aspect.
Other traditions teach
only the next step of it,
which is once you go all
the way into that center
and you touch the divine plane,
it's like you've activated it,
and then a flood of energy
comes out of that zero point.
So after you've gone into the
center of the Cave of Brahma,
you can get the
point that you've
reached that absolute center,
and the natural countermovement
then happens.
That countermovement,
now it's from the center
outward to the periphery.
And some traditions
teach only that movement.
>> REGINA: And what
is the purpose of that
countermovement?
>> GILBERT: The
countermovement is what I refer
to as the radiance movement.
>> REGINA: I mean, because
some would call it Kundalini,
for example?
>> GILBERT: Well--
>> REGINA: --Kundalini
awakening, casually speaking.
>> GILBERT: It's absolutely
related to Kundalini awakening,
although that process has
some other elements to it.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> GILBERT: So what we're
talking about here is I call it
zero-point centering.
What all these traditions
teach, mostly in the East,
about going into the
center of the center,
and then you're traveling
through the inner world
and you're activating the
gland, the organ, whatever
it might be to become an
organ of spiritual perception.
Then from that center,
once it's triggered,
you have that second movement
that the Western traditions
tend to focus on where
it's moving outward
and becomes a sphere
of light and energy.
So for example, in the
Greek-Christian Hermetic
tradition with the teacher
Stylianos of Atteshlis
from Cyprus, who was known to
the public as Daskalos, great
Greek Christian
Hermetic teacher.
One of the first things he would
teach in his initiation school
is, he didn't teach going into
the center, only out from it.
And you go out from the center
and you create a golden sphere
around the head, a rose
sphere around the chest
and around the heart,
and a blue sphere
around the lower abdomen,
mostly to calm those energies.
But what you're doing is you're
then allowing those energies
that you've tapped
into by opening up
that divine gate in
the center to flood out
and to actually become part
of your energetic field.
And so your energetic
field expands,
and the vibrational qualities
from that expansion,
like the gold sphere
around the head,
then begins to
literally illuminate
our thoughts and
our consciousness.
So we need to have
an understanding
of the complete movement.
Again, most traditions just
go in or they just go out.
But I like to teach it
as a complete movement.
Going into the center til
you reach that true divine--
>> REGINA: That
condensation, Yeah.
>> GILBERT: Yes.
And then it expands
back outward.
And it's really a
breathing process,
just like we breathe in and
we breathe out and we contract
and we expand.
That's true for all
of these things.
So if we see something
like the point
in the center of
the circle and then
the point in the
center of the sphere,
that's one very
practical example.
This would be like
my first example,
but it could be
hundreds of others
for how that would then be
applied to the human energy
field.
For Kundalini, then that would
be related to another question,
and that is, what are the
main methods for activating
the entire energy system?
And the three
primary methods are
you can do it from
below-upwards, which you find
in a lot of older
Asian traditions,
and that is opening
up the original divine
fire, of course, in the
tailbone and the sacrum.
And then you're sending
the energy up the spine
and also activating the
ida-pingala channels
as it's going up and conducing
through the different chakras
until you can then reach the
points in the head to get
a full illumination process.
So you have below-upwards
with Kundalini activation
as one possible method.
Then later Western traditions
tended to focus on a top-down
method, and that was symbolized
in the Christian ministries
as showing--
and you see this in very
ancient illustrations where
there is a pillar of
light around Jesus
at the time of the
baptism in the Jordan.
And there's the dove of the
Holy Spirit descending down
into his crown chakra.
And at the time of
the crucifixion,
it's described that the veil
that covered the Holy of Holies
in the Temple of
Solomon was rent
from the top to the bottom.
And so that's opening up the
energy system from the crown
center downward.
So you have
below-upwards, top-down,
but then there's another one
that's not as well-known, which
is from center-outward.
And the center-outward is
perfectly described in what
the Rosicrucians and Rudolf
Steiner called the six basic
or the six essential exercises
where you're given six
exercises that develop certain
lotus petals of the 12--
petal lotus of the heart chakra.
And you then activate
the heart chakra
as the first thing you do.
And then that creates
an organizing center
for the rest of
the energy system.
And they explain that
until you have that,
you don't really have
an organizing center
to keep all the
other activations
in the right balance.
And so they do it
from center-outward.
And so again, that's
seeing things contextually.
Most traditions only talk about
below-up, top-down, sometimes
center-out, but I
think it's important
that people, if they're
going to have freedom,
they have to understand
the full context.
Here is the owner's
manual, here's
the blueprint for the ways
that you could approach this.
>> REGINA: Right.
And I haven't heard anyone
explain it in this way before.
And I was just
flashing on this as you
were talking about geometry
and subliminal use of geometry
in the development--
Rudolf Steiner,
for example, my son
went through the water
system from kindergarten on.
And what I always
found interesting
was the rounding off of the
corners on all the papers
until the mind and the
being reached a certain age,
so that it did not create
linear thinking, rather
expansive creative
thinking in the young mind.
And so it was
completely subliminal.
But if you were
to do it right now
and take this piece of paper,
cut the corners off, round
all the corners off on it, it's
a completely different feeling
of the interface
with that paper.
>> GILBERT: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: And these are very
simple subliminal ways in which
Steiner used in his
system geometry.
>> GILBERT: Absolutely.
So one particular anecdote from
Steiner's geometric work, which
I'm a huge fan of, I think it
was absolutely brilliant, he
had a private initiation
school from 1904 to 1914,
and then it ended with the
beginning of World War I.
But this went beyond what
he taught people publicly.
These were people that were
like his private initiate group.
And that material was
not available in English
until like the last
10 years or so.
It's only been very recently
translated into English.
And so you find some
fascinating things in there.
>> REGINA: Was this during
his like Viennese period
in the coffeehouses where he
was starting to gather people
to him as a young man?
Was that in-- that must have
been in a relatively early
phase of his--
>> GILBERT: It started in 1904,
so there's still some of that.
But he was beginning to
gain steam at that point.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> GILBERT: And he was beginning
to have larger outlets.
And of course, that then led to
the building of the Goetheanum
in Switzerland.
>> REGINA: Oh, yes.
>> GILBERT: And all
of that geometry.
But on this
particular trajectory,
looking at what he
was teaching people
about this very advanced form
of spiritual sacred geometry
in his private
initiation school,
there were debates that I
recall in the 1980s, 1990s
in modern metaphysics
about people
talking about the Merkabah.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>> GILBERT: And saying--
one particular line of
thought is, well, the Merkabah
is based on the
star tetrahedral--
>> REGINA: Right here, yeah.
>> GILBERT: It based
on a six-pointed star.
And another person
would say, no,
it's based on the phi ratio.
It's based on a
five-pointed star.
And what you find in Steiner's
work is he-- it gives you,
once again, the larger context.
These are fragments.
And so what he
shows very clearly
is the classical teaching, which
is that the five-pointed star
is a form that actually
activates and works
in the circulation of
the human etheric body,
and the six-pointed
star activates and works
with the circulation of
the human astral body.
So they're both a part of a
much larger what we might call
Merkabah or Merkavah process.
But they're at different
planes, different levels.
And so once you start looking
at different planes of existence
and different human
subtle bodies,
the geometries change
for the different levels.
But that's not always explained
in the public material.
It's just like, why am I seeing
all these different patterns.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GILBERT: Sometimes they
align in another hidden way that
really becomes, once again, the
owner's manual for the initiate
to do highly precise work.
>> REGINA: And in his
own work of the day--
and I would just bring this
up so people can go online
and take a peek at what the
original Goetheanum looked like
before it burned down, two
interlocking domes with no
visible means of support.
>> GILBERT: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: I went to his library
in Dornoch many years ago,
and talk about prolific.
Well, they were
essentially channelings.
I mean, he was just
streaming and downloading
this information to thousands--
I mean, there were
thousands of documents
that had come from him.
>> GILBERT: And there's over 350
published books of either books
he wrote or collected lectures.
>> REGINA: Yes, collected
lectures as well.
I mean, a library full
of this, and I certainly
encourage anybody to begin--
what would you say to begin
with as a primal work of his
if someone was interested
in studying Steiner?
>> GILBERT: That's
a great question,
because what I find in orthodox
Steiner circles is that they
tend to recommend these
extremely dense books that are
called the basic
books of Steiner.
And while they are
important, they--
>> REGINA: They're tough.
>> GILBERT: They just
bounce people off of them
because they're so dense.
So like "Philosophy of Freedom,"
"Outline of Occult Science,"
brilliant texts,
but really dense.
But I'm not recommending
those as where to start.
That's what you tend to
get recommended if you go
to an anthropological outlet.
>> REGINA: What
would you recommend?
>> GILBERT: I recommend a book
called "Founding a Science
of the Spirit."
>> REGINA: OK.
>> GILBERT: Which is a
series of lectures he gave,
which is extremely easy to
access and people can absorb it
very quickly.
>> REGINA: "Founding
a Science of Spirit?"
>> GILBERT: Yes.
"Founding a Science of
the Spirit" by Steiner.
Great series of lectures.
And another one that's really
fascinating and very easy
to absorb is written
by someone who
attended early
lecture cycles of his
and was a writer,
Edouard Schure.
And Edouard Schure wrote a book
called "An Esoteric Cosmology."
>> REGINA: How do you
spell his last name?
>> GILBERT: S-C-H-U-R-E.
>> REGINA: No one would
have guessed that one.
Edouard Schure.
And the name of the book again?
>> GILBERT: "An
Esoteric Cosmology."
>> REGINA: OK.
>> GILBERT: In modern form,
sometimes they might just
attribute it to Steiner
because it's like straight from
Steiner's lectures.
>> REGINA: Right, right.
>> GILBERT: But these two
books, "Founding a Science
of the Spirit" and "An
Esoteric Cosmology,"
I find people can
absorb very easily.
And they're full of
fascinating insights.
So for example, in "An
Esoteric Cosmology"
is where they have the
summary knowledge about what
for the Rosicrucians does
the point in the center
of the circle mean?
Six-pointed star mean and
the five-pointed star mean.
I just talked about
the five and the six
related to the different
levels of subtle bodies.
There's another
level of it, which
is at the point of the center
of the circle they consider
to be the form of the godhead.
Then the six-pointed
star is related
to the form of the macrocosm,
and the five-pointed star
for the microcosm.
So very clear, concise
summary information.
Whereas in "Founding a
Science of the Spirit,"
there's a discussion
where Steiner
talks about the forms
of the human astral body
and how this was
related at one level
to this egg-shaped
aura, like you
see in all the
theosophical paintings,
but at another level to the
six-pointed star structure
and to the activation of
particular nodal points
in the human energy body
related to a harmonic of three
and three nodal points
in the energy body
that the astral body roots in.
So in the head and the
heart and in the liver.
And so that three-fold division
of the soul is something
you find in many
traditions, but Steiner
has a particular way
of going into deeper
levels of these things.
And so again, as a
contextual knowledge,
if you look at the work
from the Rosicrucians,
they'll talk about the three
aspects of the human soul
being thinking,
feeling, and willing,
and with anchor points
in those three levels.
But those same three levels
become the three Dantian,
in the three elixir fields
for internal alchemy
for the Chinese with the upper,
middle, and lower Dantian,
same areas.
For the Sufis, they talk
about the head, the heart.
And because in some
of the religions that
don't like to deal too much
externally with sexuality,
they don't talk about
the lower abdomen.
Instead they talk about
the metabolic forces
in the lower abdomen
expressing through the hands.
So for the Sufis, it's
head, heart, and hands.
So once you
understand the pattern
that they're all
based on, you can
see how all of these
traditions are really
talking about the same thing.
And so once you get
a pattern knowledge,
and that's the type of sacred
geometry as a divine language
that we were talking about,
if you have pattern knowledge,
you can study any
tradition in the world
and you can see how the
pieces fit together.
Because one thing I was
always fascinated by
is when I studied
science, every year,
new discoveries in science are
integrated into the main body
of knowledge.
So they have to keep updating
the textbooks all of the time,
because we just learn something
new in biology, chemistry,
and physics.
But in metaphysics,
there tends to be
a little bit of "The
Lord of the Rings,"
my precious kind of thing.
Like this is my
body of knowledge.
And we-- new things come
out, new discoveries,
but we don't tend to unify
it into a collective body
of knowledge.
And I think that's where mature
metaphysics needs to get to.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
We can't have this protectionist
attitude towards something
that we feel we have
exclusive knowledge of.
That's not the time
for-- this isn't
the time for that anymore.
I agree with you totally.
Now, I would like to
thank you for all that.
I think people have to go back
and listen a few times just
to this first part
of our conversation
to really take it in.
But let's move on to an
extension of that biogeometry
in Dr. Karim's work.
>> GILBERT: Yes.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> GILBERT: So I was very
blessed as I was teaching
sacred geometry in the year 2000
that someone mentioned to me
about the work of Doctor
Ibrahim Karim from Cairo, Egypt,
and said, oh, he's just starting
to come to the United States
to teach some of his work in
biogeometry and that this work
is an absolute breakthrough
in understanding the true
energetics behind
all of these forms.
So of course I
immediately made a beeline
for his next course,
which at that time
was in Clearwater, Florida
with the Baubiologie Institute,
because baubiologie is the
German system of building
ecology.
Not only how do you use healthy
building materials, but also
how do you ameliorate
electromagnetic pollution.
And so they understood--
>> REGINA: Big issue now.
>> GILBERT: So they understood
the importance of what Dr.
Karim was doing
with biogeometry,
because he wasn't focusing
on that so much as the actual
energetic power and effects of
all of the shapes and the forms
that you were using in
the interior design,
the architecture, and even
things inside the human energy
body itself based on form.
And so I then simply,
every he would come teach,
he couldn't get rid of
me, I was always there.
And I was, again, very fortunate
that several years later he
invited me to be the first
person outside of Egypt
to teach his work publicly.
And so I started
doing that in 2003.
And so I've been working with
him and learning from him
and teaching his work
for the last 20 years.
And in fact, I just had him
at my online summer conference
a couple of months ago where
he gave the keynote talk.
So I'm a huge fan
of Ibrahim's work
and I'm happy to discuss
any part of that you
might be interested in.
>> REGINA: Well, I think for
the people watching this,
they're probably going to
always be most interested
in the practical applications
of the work, of all work.
>> GILBERT: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: In the whole news
you can use thing, right?
>> GILBERT: Yes, absolutely.
So one thing that we sometimes
find with sacred geometry
is that in some bodies of work,
it could be fairly abstract.
And with Ibrahim-- he doesn't
call it sacred geometry,
by the way, but again,
his term is biogeometry.
And that has to do with
the effects of shapes
and their energetic
emissions on life functions.
That's what
biogeochemistry really is.
And he's been able
to demonstrate
for well over 20
years in projects
all over the Middle
East and Europe
that he can create changes in
the life functions of living
beings from particular geometric
forms and their emissions.
>> REGINA: So how
are they utilized?
How are they expressed so that a
person can be affected by them?
>> GILBERT: Let me give--
>> REGINA: The mechanism.
>> GILBERT: --a little
bit of background,
and then the mechanism
will make more sense.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> GILBERT: Dr. Karim credits
the breakthrough work of French
researchers in the early part
of the 1900s in developing what
they called physical
radiesthesia.
And he says that he
took that work further
to make biogeometry.
And so the physical radiesthesia
uses things like pendulums
and other types of small--
>> REGINA: Which radionics
ultimately came from, right?
>> GILBERT: That's right.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> GILBERT: And let's
definitely talk about that.
That's a fascinating
story of how
radionics developed from it.
But what the French
were doing is
just as some of the people
involved in modern physics
were actually, like
Werner Heisenberg,
taking things from the
old Platonic knowledge
of sacred geometry and
applying it to nuclear physics,
and just like Buckminster
Fuller took that knowledge
and then created
the knowledge that
became the foundation
for nanotechnology,
the French were going
back and wanting
to understand, what were they
doing with these patterns
in China, in India, in Egypt?
Particularly Egypt
was their focus.
And so they came
up with the concept
of the shape-caused wave.
The shape-caused wave is what
is the energetic emission
coming from a particular
type of shape or form?
And they then created
a whole series of tools
to be able to identify
these subtle radiation,
subtle vibrations coming
from the different shapes.
And what they were working
with was the concept
that we live in a world
of invisible vibrations,
invisible radiations that
we don't have a sense
organ to detect, and our fairly
crude electromagnetic materials
only pick up the
Herzian waves that are
slower than the speed of light.
There's all kinds of invisible
waves that affect living beings
that cannot be picked up by
our modern electromagnetic
equipment.
And so they extended
the human energy field
through these
forms, just as they
proved that they
did in ancient Egypt
and other ancient cultures,
to be able to pick up
these subtle vibrations--
>> REGINA: Are you
speaking more divination?
Through divination or this
precursor to the divination?
>> GILBERT: It's
a different track.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> GILBERT: So the divination
is to be able then to determine
the forces that are going to
lead to one particular outcome.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> GILBERT: So the shape-caused
wave is the essential vibratory
wave that carries with
it a sita, a power,
a function along with it.
And so the way that
I like to explain
this is that if we look at
how did modern technology come
about?
The modern technology came
about by cracking the code
of two essential spectrums.
The first spectrum is
the spectrum of matter
that we call the periodic table.
Now we know every
type of matter that
exists in the physical
world that we can
use for practical applications.
The other spectrum
is the spectrum
of the electromagnetic spectrum.
And so now we know all the
types of decayed Herzian waves
that we can push through
wires or wires at least
transmit to use with
those materials,
and that's created everything
in our modern technology.
So spectrum analysis
at the level
of the subphysical,
the electromagnetic,
and the physical itself.
But the problem is,
that all of that
work, as Dr. Karim will often
talk about in biogeometry--
so this is all
leading to his work,
if you only focus on
those levels and nothing
beyond the physical,
they're not studying
the effect of the harm
on biological life,
that the use of these physical
materials on the periodic table
and the electromagnetic energy
radiations are creating.
So we're creating
technologies that
are antithetical to human life
and all life on the planet
and are killing life on
the planet very quickly.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> GILBERT: So we have to
bring in what they focused
on in the ancient world, and
that was the level of the life
force, the vital energy.
Unfortunately, when I took my
Biology 101 class in college,
the first thing that they said
on the first day of Biology 101
is biology is the study of life.
And I thought, great,
I'm in the right place.
But the next thing they
said is that, however, there
was no such thing as life.
Life is only a series
of mechanical processes.
And if you believe that
such a thing as life exists,
you were a victim of
the vitalist fallacy.
And so I immediately
recognized I
was a victim of the
vitalist fallacy,
I wasn't planning on changing.
But we have to bring
in this next level.
So that's what the French
were actually up to.
They were up to, how
am I going to identify
the complete spectrum of these
invisible energies that affect
living beings all the time and
we have no frame of reference
for?
And then combine it
with the knowledge
of the electromagnetic
and physical spectrums.
So they had to create spectrum
analysis for life energy
itself, which I think is
tremendously exciting,
and I spent a lot of
my own research time on
to be able to understand,
how can we bring together
the knowledge from traditions
all over the world--
like how would
you bring together
Chinese medicine and Ayurveda?
One divides phenomena
into three parts.
Another divides it
into five parts.
If you bring it together
into the complete spectrum
of all vital life
energies identified
by the French in
the 1930s, then you
can bring together
any body of work
and put it together into
that complete spectrum.
You can test their tools,
you can test their methods
and identify every
band of vibration
based on what the
French accomplished.
Dr. Karim learned about
this from his friend
who was a Coptic Christian
medical doctor in Egypt.
And he became fascinated
by physical radiesthesia.
And Dr. Karim's an
incredible man anyway.
He has a very unusual biography.
He was recognized by all kinds
of people from a young age
as being a very
significant individuality.
So he picked up
on this knowledge
that the French had
developed, and over decades,
developed it further.
And so he began to understand in
addition to the spectrum of all
the different
powers and functions
that the French identified,
all of which are polarized
vibrations that either make
things more yin or more yang
or they activate
or sedate, they're
within a polarity
system like everything
in our manifest
polarity world is.
But he said they
missed something.
Dr. Karim said they missed
this essential component
of what's in the center?
And so he did all
this work to identify,
what's the vibrational power
and the qualities in the center
and developed his
concept that he
calls BG3, which
is starting to look
at the qualities of
that original center.
What is this universal
harmonizing force that
balances all living systems?
Doesn't matter what they are.
And you learn that the
higher levels of biogeometry,
it's really all going back
to that literal center
of everything, which
is the divine plane.
Dr. Karim likes to
say that the center is
a transcendental gateway
beyond space and time,
and he means it
completely literally,
and he can apply
it quite literally.
And so there's a way that
you can harmonize or balance
any energetic
system-- that's what
I'm getting to
here when you say,
what's the practical aspect?
You can apply that
vibratory power,
or what he would call
an energy quality,
from the center to any
other energetic system--
to a human being, to an
electromagnetic field,
to toxic Earth energies,
doesn't matter what it is.
You can put it into connection
with that universal harmonizing
force that literally centers
and balances all living systems.
And at that point, you're going
to get at least a reduction
of the toxic effects
and you're going
to help to rebalance the system.
So using that
knowledge developed
by the French of all the
different bands and all
the different things they
do, and then his discovery
of the energy of the center--
he created biogeometry,
and he found
that using some of the French
work where they had identified
that one band in creation, very
much connected to what we've
rediscovered today as
electromagnetic energy,
has a very powerful
carrier wave energy.
And we can use that
particular band of energy
the French identified
to transmit
that energy of the sintering,
harmonizing force even
at a distance.
And so he's been able to do
practical things in which he,
for example, balanced
two towns in Switzerland
and balanced the
electromagnetic pollution
over the entire towns.
And so what we teach in
our classes on this--
because we teach
online the foundation
and advanced levels of
this, and if people finish
the advanced level, they
can become a practitioner
or do occasional classes
with Dr. Karim himself
because he only teaches
like very advanced stuff.
But it teaches you how to apply
this in your home or office,
to balance all the
energetics in the space.
So this can be done through
a variety of methods.
>> REGINA: I was just
going to ask that.
OK.
>> GILBERT: Certain
types of shapes--
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> GILBERT: --that
have the effect that--
one of the keys to
this is you have
the shape that has a particular
type of vibratory emanation
that you need to
balance whatever
the harmful effects are.
>> REGINA: So that has to
be identified first, right?
>> GILBERT: And we've
identified a huge amount of that
in biogeometry.
>> REGINA: All right.
>> GILBERT: And so with that,
in identifying what that
particular vibrational
quality is,
one of the key principles is
the one of, you have to put
the transmuting form in the
line of energy conduction that
you're wanting to transmute.
Because a common mistake people
will make today is they'll--
there's a bazillion different
types of vibrational tools
that people--
>> REGINA: Exactly.
>> GILBERT: And so you buy
somebody this vibrational tool
and they say this will transmute
all the electromagnetics,
and then a person just gets
it and randomly places that
on the outer edge of
a 70-inch plasma TV.
And they put it
there and I think,
oh, it's completely
corrected and I'm protected.
So let's assume that it's a
tool that actually works instead
of the tools that don't work.
Let's assume it's one
that actually works.
But putting it on
that outer edge,
it's not in the line
of energy conduction
coming from the plasma TV.
So when I come in and I test
it with the radiesthesia tools,
it's not transmuted.
The person is still getting all
of the toxic energetic effects
from the plasma TV.
You'd have to put it in the
line of energy conduction
to make the transformation.
And so it's a matter
of knowing where
to place the corrections so
that the harmonizing energy gets
transmitted through whatever is
the power flow of that problem,
whether it's the
Earth energy line that
has a toxic effect, whether
it's electromagnetic fields,
wireless or wired, or even
things in the human body.
>> REGINA: What if-- does
it even extend beyond that?
To realms beyond
of other beings?
Even interference from dark
forces, so to speak, you know?
>> GILBERT: Absolutely.
But that's the more
esoteric part of this.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> GILBERT: We don't
always start there,
but that's definitely
where things go to.
So for example, Dr.
Karim describes the way
that he would often work with
Sufi esotericists in Egypt
and the Middle East,
and if they were
doing a type of
exorcism of a person,
clearing certain detrimental
things from their field,
he doesn't claim
to be an exorcist,
he doesn't claim to be a Sufi,
he's a very humble person.
And he says, well what I can do
is I can bring in these things
and I can change the vibratory
field around the person
so that these detrimental
influences have
a very hard time being
present in their field.
Because it's all a
question of resonance.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GILBERT: The very detrimental
qualities are in their field.
These things are
magnetically attracted to it.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> GILBERT: And if you
can change the vibration
in the field to the one that's
like this literally a field
of gold, that golden
aura you see around--
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GILBERT: --that's
what we're working with.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GILBERT: And once
you change that,
that's not what
they're attracted to.
They can't even
stay in that field.
And he would give examples
of this where a person would
put on a particular
pendant that he creates
that has a very
strong field of that
and they'd act like
it was burning them
and they threw it off.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GILBERT: Because whatever was
with them, they couldn't stay--
The
>> REGINA: Frequency
couldn't stand it.
>> GILBERT: And it's
not only in people,
but also on Earth
lines and things, too.
Things will nest in
the Earth lines that
will get lifted off from this.
>> REGINA: Robert, you're
just-- you're magnificent.
It's so much information.
We're out of time and
we've barely begun.
I would love to
invite you back--
>> GILBERT: Thank you.
>> REGINA: --to be on
the show again next year.
>> GILBERT: Thank you.
>> REGINA: And so we can
continue this conversation
and people will have a chance
to go onto your site and learn
a little bit more about
what you're doing,
and then we can advance the
conversation from there,
including me, giving me
time to catch up with what
you're doing.
So I very much appreciate
your presence here
and the incredible
vast well of knowledge
that you share with the world.
>> GILBERT: Thank you so much.
>> REGINA: You're welcome.
Thank you.
To go even more deeply
into Robert's work,
you can go to his website,
Vesica, V-E-S-I-C-A, .org.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
>> RASHAD EVANS: It showed
me that what I was was beyond
space and time.
It show me that what
I was a part of,
this collective consciousness,
we all are a part of.
[THEME MUSIC]